The first thing I did was get a refresher on the prisoner's dilemma. I didn't want to miss out on any of the provided resources, even if I thought I already understood them. So I watched the videos.

Next I forked and cloned the repository and ran it to see how it worked. I messed around with a new strategy file to learn how the history and memory worked and reviewed the existing default strategies.

Since I would be competing with a large amount of unknown strategies, I figured that to have the most robust strategy, I should really test my new one out on as many good strategies as I can. If I know I can beat them, I have a much better chance of winning the tournament.

I implemented the following new strategies to my repository (trying to avoid collusion strategies but I did include probing strategies):
(strategies come from https://medium.com/thinking-is-hard/a-prisoners-dilemma-cheat-sheet-4d85fe289d87#:~:text=Strategy%3A%20Start%20with%20Defect%2C%20Cooperate,our%20head%2C%20or%20shake%20hands.)
    * firmButFair: Starts with cooperating, then switches to defecting if cooperated on the last turn and the opponent defected, then switches back to cooperating if both players defected on the last turn
    * gradual: Starts with cooperating, then when the opponent defects for the nth time, defect for the next n turns then cooperate for the next two turns
    * generous TFT: TFT but when the opponent defects, only defect back 90% of the time
    * soft majority: cooperate if the opponent has cooperated at least half time, otherwise defect
    * hard TFT: defects if the opponent has defected in any of the past 3 moves, otherwise cooperates
    * two TFT: TFT but defects twice for every opponent defect
    * soft grudger: always cooperates, but if the opponent defects, the next moves will be defect 4 times cooperate twice, then continue cooperating until next opponent defect
    * suspicous TFT: TFT but start by defecting
    * hard majority: same as soft majority but defects if the opponent has defected half of the time
    * reverse TFT: starts by defecting then plays the opposite of the opponent's last move
    * remorseful prober: acts like joss, but checks if the last 3 moves are all mutual defects, and cooperates on the next move if so as a form of forgiveness
    * pavlov: run as TFT for the first 6 moves, then check the number of defects the opponent made in those 6 moves: if 0, continue playing as TFT; if 3, play FTFT; if greater than 4 or anything else, play always defect. Every 6 moves, compute player's average score and if the average is below 2.5, recompute a strategy based on the most recent 6 moves
    * adaptive: (had to kind of make this one), test all possible pairs of moves (defect, defect; defect coop; coop defect; coop coop). After trying all of these, compute the average score for every occurrence of each of these 4 pairs. Whichever score is the highest, adopt that strategy for the next two moves, then do it agains

To make my strategy evaluation more effective and less vulernable to randomness, I took influence from the video description and I modified the main script to create 10 different output scripts instead of just 1; it's not the same as running the tournament 100+ times and averaging the results into one output, but I didn't want to make too many changes to the original script and it's slightly better than before.

My thought now is to run this script and have each of the provided and new strategies battle it out. Then my first attempt at a new strategy would be an adaptive one:
    1. Identify the 10 best-scoring strategies of the bunch based on their average ranking
        NOTE: I also crossed out any strategy that EVER lost to random as well as random itself. That just can't be a good strategy
    2. Create a new strategy that tries each of the 10 strategies for 10 turns at a time and compute the average score
    3. Continue doing the strategy with the best score for the rest of the round

Running the script, I got these top 10 strategies:
    Overall Rank    Name            Average Rank (out of 22)
    10              firmButFair     9.8
    9               grimTrigger     9
    8               softGrudger     6.9
    7               titForTat       6.4
    6               ftft            5.6
    5               pavlov          5.1
    4               gradual         3.8
    3               softMajority    3.3
    2               hardMajority    3.1
    1               generousTFT     2.5

I ran my first strategy, and its average rank was 1.5 out of 23. That is extremely good!

My next thought was that generousTFT's 10% rate was a bit arbitrary. What happens when we add other generousTFT rates (I took out my strategy for now)?

Rate    Average Rank (out of 27)
1       6.4
5       3.2
10      2.7
25      8.3
50      5.2
66      15.4

So it looks like 10% is likely to be the most optimal value.

I decided to throw my strategy unchanged into the mix again to see how it fared. Out of 28, its average rank was 5.2, which was much worse than I was expecting. It ranked 14th in one tournament and 13th in another and only got 1st once.
I wasn't too big of a fan of adding multiple variations of gtft into my strategy, but it couldn't hurt to try.

10% was already in my mix. I decided to replace firmButFair with gtft 25%, grimTrigger with gtft 1%, softGrudger with gtft 50%, titForTat with gtft 5%

After that, my average rank out of 28 was 7.7 with no 1st place tournaments and a worst rank of 16! What?

Next I thought maybe I have too many strategies, so I removed all of the gtft variations other than the normal 10% and also removed forgiving TFT. That narrowed my number of strategies down to 5.

After that, my average rank out of 28 was 6.6 with a 12th place, 13th place, and 2 1st place occurrences. Not quite there yet.

Next I thought maybe I should include some of the % gftf variations back. I looked at the 10 results again to see which strategies were beating me.
I removed softMajority and hardMajority and replaced them with 1% gftf and 5% gftf

After that, my average rank out of 28 was 4.4 with one 12th place, 2 6th places, and 2 1st places. This is the best run I've had since adding the %gtft variations, but I'm still not happy with it.

Next I decided to increase the number of trials from 10 to 20 for each strategy since there are only have as much as the original strategy.

After that, my average rank out of 28 was 4. Here's the thing though: I never got 1st place and I placed 14th once. But I placed 2nd 4 times, 3rd 3 times, then 4th and 5th once each.

So I tried shrinking the number of trials from 10 to 5 to see what would happen.

After that, my average rank out of 28 was 3.7. My worst ranking was 8th followed by two 6th place finishes. I came in first twice. This is the best so far, but I'm still not perfectly happy with it.